### Abstract
Gravitational waves are 'ripples' in space-time caused by some of the most violent and energetic processes in the Universe. Albert Einstein first theorized the presence of gravitational waves in 1916 within his General Theory of Relativity. Einstein's mathematics revealed that the movement of massive accelerating objects, such as neutron stars or black holes orbiting each other, would create a disturbance in space-time, causing ripples of undulating space-time to spread in all directions from the source.
The momentous finding of gravitational waves took place in 2015, when the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory (LIGO) detectors, located in Washington and Louisiana, successfully detected them using ground-based facilities. When a gravitational wave is detected, the arms of LIGO also experience fluctuations in length. As a result, the lasers within the arms travel varying distances before coming together again. The technical term for this oscillation is "Differential Arm" motion, since the arms simultaneously change lengths in opposing ways. Now, as the beams recombine, they are out of sync, or "out of phase", and no longer totally destructively interfere. Instead, the merging beams shift in and out of phase, and a flicker of light emerges from the interferometer. Traveling at the speed of light, these cosmic ripples provide valuable insights into the true nature of gravity and reveal information about their origins, making them a fascinating area of study for scientists.
